Wow. Just wow.

The best thing I can say about Optimalverse, is that if you assume that such an optimizer AI might end up existing, this is probably one of the least horrible end-of-the-world scenarios.

Its one of several stories that follow the absolute basic premise of TCB, (which I do not talk about because people either love or hate it to the extent that any discussion is just depressing)

Displaced stories, like the Optimalverse, PonyEarthverse, Earthquestria (I think?), Chess game of the Gods, The Conversion Bureau, 5 Score, and Fallout Equestria suffer from. There is maybe one or two initial stories, which may or may not be good (from various people's perspectives, and may not be agreed on) Whether or not they become immediately popular, someone makes a spinoff, and eventually it becomes super popular, at which point everyone ever tries to write their own spinoff. Sturgen's law kicks in, 90% of them are garbage. (Which ones are garbage is again partly opinion, partially objective) People's opinions of the particular "Universe" spread through all the alternate stories in said universe, and because they have the group tag associated with them, suddenly every story gets treated as part of the same universe.

Optimal-verse isn't so bad in this. Fallout equestria, would probably be pretty bad if I read more than 3 of the four primary stories. However, the main such stories are sufficiently self-enclosed that it is fine.. PonyEarthverse and Earthquestria I read a few stories in, and the crossover elements were there from the start. The inability for authors to easily coordinate and the fact I have no interest in having to read 3 stories at the same time ruins it.

Chess game of the gods ended up with the same problem. Basic framework, Griffin the Griffin and Echo the Diamond dog started it, people jumped onto the bandwagon, and suddenly you have this godawful crossover mess of a chapter.

5 Score, the main story is fine, the spinoffs, again, vary in quality, etc.

TCB, Original story apperently was terrible, Some spinoffs were fine, Some were Anti TCB garbage, some were Pro TCB garbage, then the war started, people started attacking people in real life over their fiction preferences, and overall the whole thing got way out of hand. 

Optimalverse, Main story is fine, albiet a horror story disguised as... Something else. Much like My Little Pony itself, which honestly tends towards a Grimdark world disguised as a children's cartoon.

Displaced, in the end, had a few original-ish stories, honestly not too dissimilar to chess game of the Gods. Only difference was that they received a power set and a disguise to start with, and almost always were villains to start. Eventually the dozens and then hundreds of spinoffs showed up, apperently rules started that you MUST do these crossovers between what might be a good story and another crappy one, and it ends up a tangled web of dear god why.
