There is Nowhere to Stand to observe the effect.

The starship performed the Park shift; in an immeasurable moment its velocity changed relative to the rest of the universe. Or, rather, the theory had it that in fact the velocity of the rest of the universe changed, while the starship remained truely motionless. No one could be sure, because there as nowhere to stand to observe the phenomenon. It as anybody's guess, since nobody understood why philotic effects worked anyway; the ansible had been developed half by accident, and along with it the Park Instantaneity Principle. It may not be comprehensible, but it worked.

Ender's Game series. Speaker for the Dead.

I believe you do learn something about it later. but it has been too long since I read the series. There are a pair of effects that can be similarly described however.

Teleportation(De-materialization and Re-materialization), and Brain Uploading.

Ever since, Presumably, Startrek explained how Transporters worked, people started discussing if it killed people. Or, maybe, it started with an episode with a teleportation cloning accident. Either way, the arguments go nowhere, Souls get involved, and there is not currently any method anyone can think of that lets them observe what is happening to figure it out.
Note that if you use a Wormhole, magic portal (or Portal gun Portal) there is no interruption in existence, so there is no dilemma.

Uploading is similar. A human brain is fully and perfectly mapped, loaded into a computer, and run as a computer program that perfectly reflects the human. Is the original person killed and the upload a clone? This is actually pretty much just as bad.

In both cases, there is nowhere to stand to observe the phenomenon.

Now, I am not an expert in any relevant field. Or any field for that matter. I am about to start collage, and have mainly dabbled in Mathematics and Computer Programming.
I don't really know how to properly cite my information.

Admittedly, the first issue is we don't have the technology yet. I've seen some Science Shows which try to propose how you might do it, generally requiring super materials (unobtainum) or sensor equipment for it to work.

Now, according to Friendship is Optimal, Transcendent Humanity, and a few other stories, getting a perfect image of matter is impossible without destroying it in the process. Both cases use Nanites (Superscience Nanites which are totally magic, naturally) to map it out, and get the information. So, you have to destroy the brain in order to upload it. There is apparently no way around this, aside from instantly rebuilding it afterwards. I have no idea if this is accurate, naturally.

The other thing is that presumably Quantum Uncertainty will come into play. I suppose you have to either Fudge it or find a way around it.

Now, when you teleport, your body gets deconstructed, and perfectly recorded, then rebuilt elsewhere. So, presumably the new body is you. Its a perfect copy, and so far as you will be able to tell, you just teleported. Except.... You might have just died. My understanding of English makes it hard to explain the issue. You exist, seem to see through a window into the world. You know you exist.. Because you do. When I look at you, I have no way at all to see what apperently seperates you from your body. This kinda didn't go anywhere...

Modern science mostly says that you are your brain, entirely, no soul tagalong needed. After all, we can't observe or interact with your "Soul", or whatever. I, and presumably every other person, and possibly other animal, see the world.... I don't know how to describe it.

Anyhow, When you teleport, you might have just died. If you did, your consciousness might ceace to exist, go to an afterlife, whatever. When reconstructed, the you that you were before, might not be you, but a clone. When the teleport starts, you ceace to exist, and a new clone of you appears. Or, you see yourself having teleported.

There is simply no what for any outside observer to see any difference, and from the clone's perspective, they are still the original person.

The same with uploading, brain in a jar, and so on, naturally.