I am Diagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome and ADHD, and take medicine daily to help suppress some of the issues that are presumably related to that.
In recient years, there has been a lot of public discussion about removing some of these classifications, but I think they are real psycological issues that need to be dealt with.

Some of these are linked to those Psycological issues, some are not.

-Inability to do nothing or be patient.
It is not painful technically, but I cannot sit still unless reading or using a computer. Trying to do nothing for five minutes is almost impossible. I have to pace at least, or write thoughts in my notebook.
Other people somehow have the ability to stand in line for several minutes without seeming to have any issues

-Trouble Focusing on things that are not interesting.
This is a serious problem because I don't see most people as interesting at all, nor a lot of important things I need to learn to survive in Life.
I spent a lot of time being scared of trying to get a job because I didn't think I would be able to force myself to do it, even though I have the psysical ability to do it.

-Fear of Failure.
I still have this problem. I have a lot of trouble making decisions or taking actions when I can't predict the consequences of them.
Worse since I still have a lot of trouble with normal everyday things and failure could have long term consequences.
I was particularly scared of trying to do a lot of things myself at home which might result in me breaking something, since it might cost my parents money.
The fear was unfounded, almost entirely, but I still have trouble with it now.

-Lack of Empathy.
I don't know if it is learned or more natural for "Normal" People, but I can't empathise with other people without significant effort.
Since I have a lot of trouble caring in the first place, or just don't think about them, I can't even put in the effort.
This also appears as a Lack of Tact sometimes.

-Personal Space
I still have some trouble respecting other's personal space. Its mostly dealt with, but I still want to hold hands with people when walking places.
I can't get rid of it so easily, since I actually can't match my walking speed with other people without significant effort, and holding hands fixed that.
Its actually intelectually useful, but its not socially acceptable once you are a teenager.

-Context Mismatching.
While probably somewhat common, I have a lot of trouble matching contexts with other people, which makes communication really difficult.

-Repeatitive Compulse behavior,
This is probably the least of my issues, honestly.
I have to pace, tap my foot or hand, rub or scratch something, pick at something, and a bunch of other things.

-Anger/Aggression issues. Entirely gone since <Hospitalization>
When I was a lot younger, I had no ability to control my anger. I tended to destroy things or attack people. Especially my glasses.
Eventually my parents sent me to a Hospital to have my medication fixed, which, while it actually worked rather well, destroyed my trust in them for a long time after.


Irritatingly, a lot of these issues sound more like excuses you might use. ("Excuse" in the negative sense it tends to be used by adults or figures of authority, instead of the synonym "Reason")
While I have learned to overcome some of these partially, and medication reduces the severity of some, they are still a problem, and I doubt it will ever go away.

My father has some of the same problems, but he is more able to control it, and they don't really seem to effect him outside communication issues.
