Stories require Conflict, Comedy, Life, or Fetish to be effective, or any combination of the above.

Conflict is the most well known requirement. Every story needs conflict, whether it be social, political, or combat based.

If the Nazis are involved, they are probably there for military conflict, invading to take away our freedom, or exterminate lesser races.

The Necromancer raising an army and trying to.... Take away our freedom, and exterminate everyone else (To make a bigger army, or get rid of competition, or prepare for summoning his Dark Master, etc) is going to be the source of a military conflict. The Heroes have to stop him, or an Army does. Maybe people don't want to help, or nations argue it isn't their problem, making it social/political.

Maybe you have a Friendship Problem. (Or worse, don't have one, and try to make one) The problem generates conflict, or the lack of one does, and resolving it is a large part of the story. This is largely a social conflict.

If the setting is highschool, you probably have social conflicts. Cliques, or cheating on tests, or whatever happens at those parties that I never went to....

When you expand social conflict to larger scale, more politically powerful people, to the point that you end up abstracting it to mean towns or cities or nations, you end up with political conflict. It is largely the same, but the stakes are way heigher, and people think of it as though it is entirely different.

This guy lives alone, and has to get a job, just to get enough money to make ends meet. This alone isn't that exciting, you probably will add social conflict just to make it more interesting. But he is largely driven by chasing after a job, or finding some other way to get money. Maybe he becomes a thief, and ends up in some confict with police or otherwise?

Pirates are out looking for Buried treasure. Probably gonna have social and combat based conflict, backstabbing and all.

This is the normal way stories work, and the vast majority of stories uses it. There is this big, ugly problem, which needs to be resolved or consequences occur, such as death, or loss of status, or whatever you don't want to happen will happen.

However, if the protagonist is too powerful compared to the conflict, it breaks down, and the conflict might as well not be there.

A robber might be a problem for civilians, but Superman can use his Super Speed and Invulnerability to get in their face and disable them, faster than the robber can react. The Robber might be a central antagonist in another story, but you see this exact scene again and again when superheroes are invovled.
There is a reason why Lex Luther issmart, politically powerful, and have access to Kryptonite and Power Armor. Without these, he would be little to no threat to Superman.

One reason why Gary Stus/Mary Sues end up being problems is not because they are powerful, but because they negate the conflict.

That said, negating the conflict isn't always a disaster. After all, there are three other approaches.

-------

Comedy. Jokes, Humor, Weird Situations. Monty Python had short skits, which technically had conflict, but it was more to set the scene, and act as a backdrop for the absurdity.

The Parrot Sketch had a guy trying to get a replacement or refund for his dead Parrot. Stripped of humor, the Pet Shop Store owner does his best to obstruct the guy's attempt. It just wouldn't be that interesting without the absurd back and forth, redirection to an improbably identical shop in another city, and him eventually just giving up.

The Big Bang Theory is pretty much entirely driven by Social Conflict

Pinkie Pie is a large source of Comic Relief. 
<ANOTHER EXAMPLE HERE>
<COMIC RELIEF CHARACTERS>
<CRACKFICS>

-------
Life. Both Slice of Life, and World Building.

Slice of Life describes stories that are less conflict driven, and more following someone around their everyday life. More specifically, someone who is quite a lot different from you. 



-------

Fetish. Now, this normally is associated with Sex, and is always Weird stuff you probably have no ability to comprehend why anyone would like it.

That said, it is the closest word I could think of to the concept.
Other words kinda work. Obsession. Awesome. Trope (kinda)

Essentially, this is elements that, while you can determine whether they are present or not, it is extremely variable whether any particular person would like it.

For whatever reason, even an otherwise poor, or even terrible story can be entertaining if it matches your fetish(s).

I enjoy stories with Magic and Technology Interactions. 
I like stories, movies, or even short videos with forcefield animations.
I love stories where you see actual, real science happen. (Not hollywood science, that is totally different)
I like technical documents from fantasy or Scifi worlds.

And, to be really specific, I like Human in Equestria stories where the human is ponified, explains as such, and nopony believes them. (I even made a group, hoping other people would contribute, but no luck thus far)

I also like certain things which are sex related, but I'm not gonna explain that here. 

--------

In the end, Stories don't NEED all of these, but it helps.

Lord of the Rings has conflict of each type, but little comedy, and little Life. Also it doesn't match any of my fetishes, so I don't really like it, despite how epic people claim it is.

Harry potter has the same, but it also has Comedy, Slice of Life, and Forcefields.

Stargate has all conflict types, Some magic/Tech interfaces, some science (but not much) forcefields, and comedy. There isn't a lot of Life however.

My Little Pony has conflict. Scale scale combat, plenty of social, and minimal political. It has a LOT of comedy, largely from it's cartoon nature and Pinkie Pie. It has Life in quite a lot of places. both worldbuilding and following general life in Equestria. Its got Forcefields too.

Now, My Little Pony Fanfiction is rather weird. Now, sure, every story doesn't have everything, but you pretty much get all of the stuff the original material has, but I find lots of stories that match my fetishes too. Plenty of them crossover with Scifi, and you often get Magic/Tech interactions. Quite a few of them look into actual science mechanics. Some of them even have those Technical Documents.


