
My Little Pony Friendship is Magic Fanfiction Group, The Conversion Bureau.

This was back in my more Misanthropic stage. While technically I still have a lot of that, and pessimism, it doesn't really manifest the same way now;
Mainly since I see ponies as little better than humans. They are, after all, human expes. 

A lot of Human in Equestria stories existed, and I was still building my filters. Admittedly, they changed after several significant events in my life.
At this time, I was highly into escapism, and the world sucked. Or something. Anyhow, I focused on a lot of Self Insert stories, trying to put myself in their place, and that made me happy for a while.
"Griffin the Griffin", and "Monster", by Blackclaw, were extremely enjoyable at the time, even if, looking back, they were painfully written Gary Stu stories.
But, at the time, "Monster" had one of those scenes that caused me to cry each time I reread it, so I couldn't put it down.

Now, "The Conversion Bureau" was interesting. Looking at it at the time, I thought of it was a logical extension of the Human in Equestria (As a Pony) Concept. Why not increase the scale a millionfold?
Heck, even now, some good stories, like "Rebel Against the Night", use a similar concept. Nothing is really wrong with it.

I enjoyed it for a while. "The Taste of Grass" especially caused me to cry at some scenes. I doubt it can do so anymore.

I think It fell apart due to two factors. The influence of Less Wrong and "Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality", which seriously broke and rebuild how I looked at fiction. And the hatefics.
Chatoyance had a lot of TCB stories, and as it turns out, a lot of people hate TCB stories. I mostly am disgusted now with people on both sides due to misrepresentation, bad writing practice, and straw-man attacks.
However, people on the internet, with less restricting their behaviour (See Trolls) apparently went and attacked her stuff somehow. Hacking or something. Not really sure.
The overreaction was massive. That was odd, but didn't really matter to me. Still, that sparked a massive wave of TCB Hatefics.

See, TCB is morally questionable, and has a lot of things that can be taken quite a few different ways, due to some things being left unsaid. You can naturally interpret those in the worst possible light.
Most notable, the plot, as much as an overall plot exists, is that Earth is being consumed by Equestria manifesting and overwriting Earth, and its laws of physics being lethal to humans. 
Quite a few hatefics suggest that this was actually intentional, that Equestria's Princess(s) are attacking and assimilating Earth, and the Barrier and Thamatic Radiation are both artificial.
That is not entirely implausible.

The Transformation Potion cures "EVERYTHING EVA" and is a perfect Panacea, but it always transforms you into a pony, with no way to modify it to just heal.
While admittedly that sounds like an artificial, intentional, in universe limit, It's more that it is something like "Minovsky Physics".
That universe adds superscience which happens to make Humanoid Mechs far more effective than Tanks or anything that is practical in real life. The restriction means that the whole plot has humans being changed into ponies.

The second part is that the transformation makes mental changes. The writers of the optimistic TCB Fics tend to see Equestria as a Utopia, non-violent and Peaceful.
As such, Ponies, and hence Humans transformed into Ponies obviously need to be altered to agree with that. You generally see some minor compulsions and changes in senses.
Aside from basic biological differences (Plant matter tastes better, and meat apparently smells of death in most versions) they tend to focus on empathic and "Friendshipful" solutions to problems.
This is, of course, directly contrary to the TV Show and Comics. In the pilot, for instance., only Fluttershy is non-violent. The rest, even Rarity, consider fighting perfectly acceptable. Rarity being the first one to attack the Manticore, after all.

The hatefics almost always treat the changes as.... Zombification. As in, overly cheerful and friendly Ponies who are basically mindless extensions of Celestia's will, and all work together to Ponify all Humans.
No, really. That's how a ton of those hatefics treat it. You went too far in the other direction. That's a Straw-man Attack.

The original material did have some other fun stuff. There was the Human Resistance group which killed Ponies and Bumbed Conversion Clinics, and the Ponified Humans who tried to forcibly convert humans with what is disturbingly similar to biological warfare methods.

Anyhow, I was effected by reading Hatefics, labled as Conversion Bureau Stories, and by "The Methods of Rationality". I got sick of the fight between the two groups and left in disgust.
And so ended my interest in anything Conversion Bureau Related...

Well, for a while anyhow. Then I found "Friendship is Optimal".
So, Iceman was almost certainly influenced by TCB. He wrote a world like TCB, but where the background and motivations and plausibility and so on for where more clear-cut.
Also he was influenced by Paperclipping AIs. 

It has the same types of spin-offs as TCB had, but I haven't seen any hatefics yet. There probably are some by now, but I haven't actually been looking.
With details spelled out, I suspect it makes it harder to attack it with straw-attacks, and the alternatives take work.

I still like the setup. I consider it "The best of all Possible End of the World Scenarios." Even if it is run by something that, now, reminds me disturbingly of The Simurgh from Worm, if technically benevolent. (Sort of. Technically.)

