I was reading "The Substitute Demon"(Link), and had to walk away and do something. It was right after the part where Cimerian had to tell Shadow Weaver not to throw out the foals, them being useless. (Revise) And so, my brain started to write a monologue, which quickly ended up as some kind of worm crossover history lecture thinggy.

It was something like.

That would be inefficient. I'm channeling my inner Accord here. And then somepony asked who Accord was.
I backtracked a few times, but it ended up as something like this.

Accord was a pony from a few thousand years ago, when things, and ponies, were very different. See, back then, Ponies didn't have cutie marks, at least not in the modern sense. They didn't have special talents either, not for the longest time. Accord was one of the first (Of thousands or so) to gain one.

Modern cutie marks, they show up on your flank after a moment of absolute realization of your talents, passions, and destiny. They are also linked to your name, and largely predetermined, but you won't remember this after the story because of the taboo.

See, Cutie marks, and magic itself, those weren't with Ponykind from the beginning. Heck, Unicorns, Pegasi, didn't exist back then, let alone alicorns. And they weren't all earth ponies either. They were just Ponies. No magic, aside from powerful brains, prehensile tails, and gripping hooves. They weren't even as colorful back then. Brown, Tan, Black, White, Grey. Occasional red. Many shades, but nothing as Vibrant as today.

Things changed. Exactly what happened is still unknown, but Ponies started to gain special talents. But not like todays talents. The moment was called a "Trigger Event", and was rather traumatic. It happened on "The Worst Day of your Life", after horrific events, like betrayal, or seeing your family die in front of you. And it didn't even always happen for everypony. The vast majority never even got "The World's Worst Consolation Prize"

Now, it didn't come with a flash of light, and a symbol showing up on your flank. It was invisible and silent, and the pony might not even realized it until it manifested. Or, they would immediately use it to retaliate on their bullies, attackers, or betrayers.

Civilization, as it was back then, was built on many ideas, but one of the most strange ones today is the idea that everypony is at least theoretically equal. You might have more money, or learn skills, or be naturally talented at something, but with enough training, or putting effort in, anypony could do anything that anypony else could do.

Special talents changed that. Suddenly, Ponies could fly. Ponies could buck through brick walls, teleport, raise shields, throw fire and lightning and ice around. They could shapeshift, or control ponies or animals or insects. They could swim in lava, or breath underwater. Equality was shattered. The governments of the time fought this. Of course they did! I mean, the ponies there had power, and would never give it up to a bunch of random ponies who just suddenly became better at something, without hard work. Ponies who could destroy an army on their own, or control the weather. Civilization started to crumble.

Oh, today, this doesn't seem noteworthy. Everypony knows Pegasi control the weather. They fly, transport letters or packages. No Earth pony could compete. Earth ponies can haul more cargo, mine, or build things better, often without tools. And of course, they can grow plants and tend to animals far better than any Pegasi. And of course, Unicorns could manipulate things so much more finely, could do almost anything, but never for as long as either Earth Ponies or Pegasi. And Alicorns? Well, we all know about them, right? No earth pony or pegasus could raise the sun or moon, and even unicorns required large numbers and a massive ritual array to do so, with a small but horrific chance of burning out their magic entirely in the process.

So things changed. Ponies with Talents could massively outcompete those without. Laws were soon put into place heavily restricting use of talents and magic, to protect existing jobs and industries. Better by far to let hundreds of workers have a job for weeks that a single Talented pony could finish in an hour, right? Needless to say, this didn't go over well with the Talented.

Back then, Ponies wore clothes a lot more than today. Both as a status symbol, but also for protection. Modern ponies of any tribe are far hardier, and regenerate at what would have been unbelievable speeds back then. A broken leg was near impossible to heal, and lets not get started on the diseases. This was actually the main reason you don't usually think of ancient ponies as having such a small range of colors.

But to get back to the Talented, there were works of fiction back then. Comic books, essentially, like The Power Ponies, and Transformares. Colorful, impractical costumes, Capes, Masks, Secret Identities. Much like today, but with less in the way of terrible disguises. I mean, Modern comics rarely even cover up a pony's cutie mark, let alone their mane and tail color. Its symbolic today, but bac then, it was plenty. You could always find hundreds or thousands of ponies who looked almost identical, color wise. In fact, Color, as well as body shape, was the first known example of Tribalism. Dark coat? Obviously inferior, they don't deserve rights, and we can enslave them, because obviously not a "Real" Pony.

But yea. When Talents, then called Powers or SuperPowers, showed up, and legitimate jobs were blocked, there were less options. There was the Protectors, something of a Guard organization spread across Amareica, and the Yangban of Chineigh. Sailor Sentai of Japony, and so on. Government run and controlled organizations of Talented Guards, but under the control of "Normal" Ponies. Of course, many Talented would refuse, run independent teams to fight crime, or become Criminals. And following the traditions defined by those ancient stories, used costumes, secret identities, and had so much power that they were almost above the law, unless confronted by other Talented.
While it was rare for them to actually wear capes (Being impractical and even dangerous to the user) they were colloquially known as "Capes"
----
Now, Back to Accord. Accord was a Talented stallion working for the Protectors "Thinker" division, Watchdog. His job at the time was resource management for the CRT. (Cape Response Teams) A waste of his talents, of course. He was a "Thinker" type, able to make extremely detailed plans with ease, easier the more complex they got. Over one weekend, he drew up a plan to solve World Hunger. Oh, it was flawed, as he realized later, but at the time it was his first Plan. His manager didn't even bother to look at it before throwing it out, and Accord decided to work in secret. After a while, he realized that there was no way he could get his plan, even updated, to be used through official channels. He tried to approach many different organizations, of many different governments, but none would ever give him a chance, and he concluded that he would have to do it all himself.

Now, Accord decided to become a Criminal, though from the Comic influence, everypony thought of Talented Criminals as "Villains". It was the legal term and everything. He used his Talent to control part of the city, gain other capes as employees, and otherwise gain power to eventually implement his plan. Over the years, he refined his original Plan, as well as ones like World Peace, or Integrating Capes into civilization.

Unfortunately, over time, he started to develop psychological problems. OCD and Perfectionism. And while minor at first, it quickly grew 
into something crippling. From mere frustration from Ponies being a few minutes late, to murdering them for opening the door 3 seconds 
early. From a preference for a tidy office to being unable to accept any dirt on the floor, anything unsymmetrical, or even seeing torn 
paper. He couldn't accept waste, inefficiency, or even the slightest failure to follow protocals. Even still, he remained powerful until assassinated during the Battle with The Behemoth in Neo Gateway. 

So when I said I was channeling my inner Accord, it was more that I can't accept the idea of waste, of inefficiency. He was a damaged stallion, but before that, he considered everything, and made the best decisions he could. He didn't waste anything he could avoid, and turned everything torwards his goals. Aside from moral Concerns, which regardless of belief are useful to act on, It will improve Morale, and ensure we can grow in the future. After all, I might be immortal, but you are not, and a foal will someday grow up and take your place. It may cost us supplies, but it is far better to keep them around.

----

Cutie Mark first appearance. Many Capes would chose a Symbol, or Emblem to represent themselves. A shield, Gear, Heart, Wrench. Something that related to their Talent and personality. It would always be on their costume, and was just as recognizable.

There were many other notable figures back then. Tome of Might, Legendary, Alicorn, Heroic, The Zebrian, Slash, Biomancy, and many others.
Tome of Might, Legendary, Alicorn, and Heroic were considered the greatest heroes at the time.

Tome of might largely appeared as a Pegasus, but was nigh invulnerable, had perfect memory, could think and percieve things faster, and could fly at extreme speeds. It is believed that her Power, mirrored in lesser forms for many other talents, was the basis for much of Pegasus Magic today. The General form, along with durability, flight, and enhanced perception. Exactly where the weather control came from is unknown, but she never demonstrated such. She had a ruined Tower as her Emblem, though the meaning is unclear. Perhaps she considered herself a failure, or it represented great loss of some kind?

Legendary Seemed to be a Unicorn. In addition to Self Levitation (An extremely challenging ability) he was able to fire off many, many variants of mana bolts with almost any imaginable effect on impact, as well as being able to manipulate their trajectory in flight. Past that, he could maintain a powerful shield around himself. He was considered the model for "Flying Artillery", much like a single pony Pegasus Thunder Barrage, but faster, smaller, and with significantly more firepower and Flexibility. His Emblem was a Prism, with a beam of light spreading out into a rainbow. This likely represented the sheer variety of effects he could manage, and wide variety of colors of his mana bolts, and also the rainbow trail he left behind as he flew.
Legendary Seemed to be a Unicorn. In addition to Self Levitation (An extremely challenging ability) he was able to fire off many, many variants of mana bolts with almost any imaginable effect on impact, as well as being able to manipulate their trajectory in flight. Past that, he could maintain a powerful shield around himself. He was considered the model for "Flying Artillery", much like a single pony Pegasus Thunder Barrage, but faster, smaller, and with significantly more firepower and Flexibility. His Emblem was a Prism, with a beam of light spreading out into a rainbow. This likely represented the sheer variety of effects he could manage, and wide variety of colors of his mana bolts, and also the rainbow trail he left behind as he flew.

Alicorn was extremely unusual. His Talent wasn't like most others, even other "Trumps" (Trumps could effect Talents or magic directly, turning them off, amplifying them, or granting lesser Talents to others for a time) He could chose Any three Talents he wanted. Generally in the form of a defensive shield or durability, A flight method, and a long range attack option. He frequently used a Horn and Wings, and used the rather common modern Alicorn Symbol, of a Horn with two flanking wings, albiet with three orbs circling it, likely representing his three Powers.

Heroic was different. Heroic didn't have any direct power, and didn't really represent an Earth pony like you might expect. He was a builder, an engineer, a "Tinker". Able to build things that no other Pony could understand, at least at the time. Protective amulets, or strength enhancing armor. Wands letting him imitate other Talents, and many, many others.


The four worked together to protect Amareica for a long time. But, it wasn't to last. Enter The Zebrian.

The Zebrian had the Apperance of a Zebria, albiet with Clawed Cat-paws instead of hooves, as well as fangs. How she died in the end is unknown, considering her Talent rendered her essentially invulnerable. Arrows, Swords, and Hooves would be deflected or shatter on striking her, and she could walk through solid walls. Not like intangability, but rather by her displacing the bits of the wall she touched, causing it to explode away from her. As she never wore clothes, It is likely she never had an Emblem.

Her first appearance involved her tearing Heroic in half with a single sweep of her foreleg, and tearing Tome's Eye out, treating Armor and Invulnerability like it was air.

The Zebrian worked with a number of other Villians.
Slash could apply a cutting effect from long distances, and had a knife being drawn as his Emblem.
Biomancy could combine biological organisms with metal, enchanted devices to do many things. Reinforcing bones, overdriving pony Regeneration, controlling minds with implants, adding armor under the skin, repairing near lethal damage, and much, much more. She had a twisted ladder for an Emblem, although the meaning is unclear.
Flame Dancer could conjure and teleport between fires, and enjoyed setting fires everywhere. She just used a flame as her Emblem.
Void Axe could shut off powers in a wide area around himself, and was both strong and durable, and appeared much like a Minotaur today, albiet without horns. He had an Axe cutting off a Head as his Emblem.
Crawler Could regenerate from any wound, spit acid, and adapt to any damage, making it near useless in the future. He didn't have an Emblem.
Shatter Bird Could telekinetically control all the glass and sand in an entire city, and had a head like a Gryphon. A bird shaped from Fractured Glass was her Emblem.
Manequine removed his brain and organs, placing them in a suit of enchanted, nigh-invulnerable armor. He didn't use an Emblem.

There were many, many more heroes and villians, but listing them all would take forever. However, there were three others of note. The "Endbringers"

It wasn't nearly enough to merely add magic into the world and cause civilization to change in massive ways, with fights and conflict everywhere, the status quo being torn to pieces and set on fire. They needed giant, near invincible monsters showing up and wrecking cities (and anypony in their way)

Behemoth was the first. Appearing as a (wingless) Dragon carved from obsidian and cooling magma, he could manipulate energy in general. Setting fires around him, incinerating any ponies who approached. Throwing lightning around, or roaring so loud it would cause your bones to shatter from a mile away. 

Leviathan was the second. Appearing like a Malformed Pony, with blue-green Scales, and control of weather and water over a massive area. Exceedingly fast, and brought a monsoon and Tidal waves wherever he went.

The Simurgh. A Pegasus, Albiet with hundreds of irregularly placed wings. The only one who could outright fly, instead of jumping, and could telekinetically tear apart and rearrange anything that wasn't alive. And of course, She sang, and like a siren, could influence you through her voice. Generally, after around fifteen minutes, a pony was considered permanently compromised and had to be killed, as she didn't just mind control them, so much as give them compulsions that trigger weeks, months, or years later, causing massive disasters themselves.

----

Talents changed over a few generations. The second and third generations got their power earlier, and with less tramatic events being required. From a life changing, horrific event, to merely being fouled in a game of Hoofball. 


In the end, we don't know exactly what happened. The world was damaged. Ruins of great cities, fields of ash, Cities being torn from the bedrock. Volcanos erupting, and overall the world coming to an end. Best we can Gather, this is when Discord appeared. Discord being Discord, Records after this point are of questionable accuracy. But, we are reasonable certain he broke the world with his power. He broke the sun and the moon, the weather, and Talents. And by broke I mean he changed how they worked, fundimentally. Ponies "Mutated". Sure, Talents often caused minor mutations, like wings or horns, claws and beaks, but Discord spread that to All ponies. Talents changed further, no longer requiring trama to manifest, just something really important to a pony. But they got weaker in the process. Still in as much variety, but no longer were ponies so much greater than others. Talents generated their own Emblems, showing up as patterns on the fur, on clothing, but at random. Coat colors changed at random, to any color, even day to day.
This lasted for a long time. Thousands of years perhaps, or a few minutes. Time didn't work as well.

With the Rise of Celestia and Luna, and the usage of the Elements of Harmony to Seal away Discord, things were like they are Today, more or less. Races formed. Those with Unicorn-like traits ended up as Unicorns, Dragon traits as dragons, and so on. Talents always appeared, and Always on Flanks, and it was always a positive experience triggering it. Talents weren't all focused on conflict, and things got better.


Many records were partial, or damaged in various ways, so much of this may be wrong. Some evidence suggests Ancient Ponies were bipedal, and didn't even have Hooves, or coats of fur. That their Enchanted Machines were far greater than our own. Flying machines that could reach the moon, Instant communication, Mathematical Engines. Some of these exist in our time, but those of the Ancient world were implied to be far greater.

