----------
  Chapter 1: The Unintended Transformation
----------

On a hot summer day like today, Ponyville’s local pond is the place to be. Most of the time, it feels like half the town is there, cooling off and relaxing. Today, though, you should have the place to yourself. Everyone’s busy getting ready for the upcoming Summer Sun Celebration, but you managed to sneak off. Procrastination has always come naturally to you, and trying to focus on work in this heat is downright impossible.
Rounding the last bend of the trail, the sparkling water comes into view, partially obscured by a few bushes and trees. You smile, and trot faster towards the pond, eager to rinse off a heavy layer of sweat. Just as you reach the edge of the water, you hear some noises from the other side of a bush. Peeking around it, you spot a couple ponies by the water a little ways away. You recognize Sweet Roll, one of the town’s bakers, lying down and reading a book while her foal, Cinnamon Roll, is playing with a beach ball by the edge of the pond.

You jump back behind the bush, sighing inwardly. The pond was supposed to be all yours today! No one can know you’re skipping work again though, not when you already took more than a few impromptu vacation days last week. You lie down, rubbing your face with your hooves as you think. Maybe if you wait, they’ll leave soon, and you can get in the water. The heat is unbearable, and it’d be a shame to come all the way out here and not cool off. From your position on the shore, the water taunts you with its clear, glassy surface, practically begging to be jumped into.

A light bouncing noise grabs your attention away from the pond. Looking to the side, you spot a familiar beach ball, sitting less than a foot away from you. You stare blankly at it, as the little unicorn foal from earlier shuffles through the bush, eyes on the ball. Once the Sweet Roll notices her foal is gone, she’ll start looking around. This filly’s gonna blow your cover! Thinking fast, you pick up her beach ball. Making sure she sees, you lightly lob it back over the bush. Or you would have, anyways, if the ball hadn’t gotten stuck on a branch near the top, popping in the process.

The foal just stares up at her beach ball, limp and hanging out of reach on the bush. She lets out a little whine that slowly grows in intensity into full-blown wailing.

“Cinnamon? Where are you?” you hear the mare call. Shit. You try and shush the foal, anything to stop the crying. No luck, she’s fixated on the defeated beach ball. You can hear her mother getting closer. You spin Cinnamon around, and make a goofy face in a last ditch attempt. You might be found out for skipping work, but the last thing you need is an angry mother going off on you for making her filly cry. It seems to work for a moment, the foal stops crying out of confusion. She looks up at you, and starts to sniffle again. Suddenly, her horn starts glowing, and there’s a flash of light as a strange chill runs through your body.

As your vision adjusts from the flash, you notice Cinnamon isn’t crying any more. Actually, she’s giggling and crawling towards you. Mentally, you add ‘Foal Pacifier’ to your list of self-granted titles. Silly faces get them every time. She calmed down just in time, too. You see her mother come into view from behind the bush.

“There you are, Cinnamon! You had me worried,” Sweet Roll sighs, as she nuzzles the little filly. Breaking away, she turns to look at you. “What do we have here?” she wonders out loud. You go to extend a hoof and introduce yourself, but your arm doesn’t move. Confused, you try to look down and see what’s wrong, but you can’t seem to move your head, either. Panic beginning to well up in your chest, you try to desperately thrash around, trying to move anything. Nothing. You try to yell, to ask the mare for help, but no sound escapes your unmoving lips. You feel something bump into your unmoving leg. You can’t see, but it feels like Cinnamon has grabbed your forehoof in a hug. The unnatural feeling of your leg contorting to the way the foal squeezes it only scares you more, as does the slight squeaking noise you hear. Her curious mother, still inspecting you, stares into your eyes as you try to give her some indication that you need help, pleading for her to notice.

She steps back, “Huh. One of the decorations for the festival must have floated off down here.” Picking her filly up on her back, Sweet Roll smiles at her daughter, “That dough should be done rising anyways. Let’s head back into town, and bring this back with us.”

Decoration? Just what did that little foal do to you? It’s common knowledge that baby unicorns can have spurts of magic, but this is beyond anything you’ve heard of. Urgent, panicked thoughts buzz through your head as you try to make sense of things. You’re momentarily broken out of your frenzied state as the mare effortlessly flips you over. The fall to the ground seems slower than it should be, and as you land on your side, the impact makes a quiet ‘pomf’ sound. From you new vantage point on the ground, you can see part of your reflection in the water.

Dead, unmoving eyes. Muzzle locked in a permanent smile. Shiny, plastic skin all over. You’ve been turned into an inflatable toy. Unable to move, unable to speak, unable to even cry out of panic and anxiety, there’s nothing left to give any indication that you were ever a living pony. As the reality of the situation begins to slowly close around your shattered mind, you feel something being pulled out of your back, near the base of your tail. A whooshing sound fills your ears as you feel hooves pushing down on your back, forcing your body to twist and bend in ways that should have been impossible. You start to feel a growing pervasive sense of emptiness, as if your body were slowly collapsing in on itself. From somewhere behind you, you can hear Cinnamon whimper a little.

“Calm down kiddo, I can’t carry you and this back to town at the same time. I hope they don’t mind blowing it back up again, though,” your unaware tormentor chuckles. You can only sit in quiet despair as she continues to push the air out of you. Soon, parts of your body are completely deflated. The sensation of the insides of your hooves touching each other is lost among the cacophony of your panicked, buzzing thoughts. Working her way up your back, you can feel your body collapse under the gentle pressure of her hooves, accompanied by the steady whoosh of air out through the valve on your back. She finishes the job by squashing your head and piping the last of your air out, leaving your entire body crumpled and flat on the ground.

Suddenly, your back hooves are bent up and laid flat against your body. You can feel your tail being pressed on top of your hooves, right before your flank is folded in on top of them. Your body produces squeaking noises of plastic being rubbed together with every fold Sweet Roll makes. The mare continues, folding your forehooves up, tucking them into the rolled-up pile of plastic that is your body. As she finishes wrapping your head along your own side, you can see her face out of your one eye that’s facing outwards.

She picks your folded self up, and swings you around towards her back. For a brief instant, you see the foal that caused all this, the only one who knows you’re not supposed to be a deflated, rolled up bundle of squeaky plastic, sitting comfortably on her mother’s back, drooling and smiling at you without a care in the world. Then, you’re stuffed into a saddlebag, and everything goes dark.

“What a nice visit to the pond,” Sweet Roll muses to herself as she begins her walk back into town

----------
  Chapter 2: At the Bakery
----------

The bakery’s door swings open with a gentle chime, signaling Sweet Roll's return. The comforting aroma of fresh bread and sweet pastries fills the air, a welcome contrast to the hot summer day outside. Sweet Roll heads straight for the kitchen, the weight of her saddlebag barely noticeable as she deftly navigates the familiar space. Cinnamon Roll, still perched on her mother’s back, babbles happily, oblivious to your silent, desperate presence within the dark confines of the bag.

Sweet Roll sets Cinnamon down in her playpen, giving the filly a soft pat on the head. “Now, you be good while Mommy finishes up here, alright?” Cinnamon coos in response, her little horn sparking harmlessly as she reaches for her favorite toy, a stuffed dragon.

The dough has risen perfectly, and Sweet Roll sets about shaping it into loaves. She hums a cheerful tune as she works, the rhythmic kneading a soothing routine. You can feel the gentle sway of her movements through the bag, each motion a reminder of your helplessness. The sensation of being folded and compressed is strange, your plastic form still retaining a vague sense of touch.

As the bread bakes, Sweet Roll cleans up the kitchen, wiping down counters and organizing ingredients with practiced efficiency. Finally, she turns her attention to the saddlebag. “Time to take care of this little thing,” she says to herself, pulling you out and unfolding your flattened body with care. The sensation of being stretched and flattened again is disorienting, the squeak of your plastic skin a constant reminder of your current form.

She inspects you briefly, a curious look on her face. “I’m sure the festival organizers will be happy to have this back. It’ll look lovely among the decorations.” With that, she carefully folds you up again, this time with more precision, and places you back into the saddlebag.

Sweet Roll steps out of the bakery, saddlebag securely fastened, and heads towards the town square. The journey is brief, the sun high in the sky as ponies bustle about, preparing for the upcoming Summer Sun Celebration. You can feel the subtle shifts of her movements, each step a reminder of your helpless predicament.

Arriving at the festival grounds, Sweet Roll heads straight for the lost and found tent. Ponies rush around, setting up decorations and organizing supplies. The sound of laughter and chatter fills the air, but it only amplifies your sense of isolation.

Sweet Roll approaches the lost and found booth, where a tired-looking stallion with a clipboard is trying to manage the influx of misplaced items. She carefully unfolds you one last time, holding you up for the stallion to see.

The stallion glances at you, then shrugs. “Thanks. It looks like something from the festival. We’ll just put it with the other decorations.”

As you’re placed among the other lost items, it becomes clear that no one actually recognizes you as a part of the festival. Nopony pays you any mind, assuming you must have come from the celebration despite the lack of confirmation.

You end up draped over a box, your plastic form slumping lifelessly. The vibrant activity of the festival continues around you, but you’re ignored, a forgotten decoration among the hustle and bustle. As the day wears on, you remain there, hoping against hope for a miracle, for somepony to notice the truth of your situation.

The upcoming Summer Sun Celebration promises to be a grand event, but for you, it’s a silent, anxious wait in the lost and found, a plastic pony hidden in plain sight, desperately wishing to be found.

----------
Chapter 4: The Poolside Play
----------

The hustle and bustle of the festival preparations continue around you, the sounds of ponies chatting and laughing a constant reminder of your helpless situation. You remain draped over a box, ignored and forgotten, your plastic body slumped lifelessly.

Time seems to stretch on endlessly until a pony finally approaches the lost and found booth. It’s a young mare, her coat a soft shade of lavender and her mane tied back in a practical ponytail. She’s carrying a checklist and glancing around, clearly searching for something.

“Excuse me,” she calls to the stallion at the booth, “I’m here to collect the decorations for the pool area.”

The stallion nods and gestures to the various items piled around. “Take whatever you need.”

The mare starts sorting through the decorations, picking out colorful streamers and inflatable toys. Her eyes land on you, and she tilts her head curiously. “This looks perfect for the pool,” she murmurs to herself, lifting you up and inspecting your deflated form. “Just needs a little air.”

With surprising efficiency, she carries you over to a pump set up nearby. The sensation of being unfolded and stretched out again is disorienting, but there’s a strange relief in not being crumpled up. She attaches the pump to your valve and begins inflating you. Air rushes into your plastic body, and you can feel yourself expanding, regaining your full shape. The sensation is bizarre, your form growing firmer with each pump.

Finally, she steps back to admire her work. “There we go, all set!” she says cheerfully. She picks you up and carries you over to the pool area, where several foals are playing nearby, splashing and laughing in the cool water.

You’re set down next to the pool, propped up so that you’re standing upright. The foals glance over at you with curiosity, their eyes wide with excitement. You can hear their excited chatter and giggles, the anticipation of new playthings evident in their voices.

“Look, an inflatable pony!” one of the foals exclaims, pointing at you.

“Can we play with it?” another asks, bouncing on their hooves.

“Just a moment, kids,” the mare says, holding up a hoof to calm them. “We need to make sure everything is ready first.”

The foals gather around, eager but patient, their eyes darting between the pool and you. You remain there, fully inflated and unable to move, a silent participant in the joyful scene. The water sparkles invitingly, the foals’ laughter a constant backdrop as they wait for the signal to dive in and play.

For now, you’re simply an inflatable toy, set by the pool, with a group of excited foals nearby. The anticipation of their play hangs in the air, and you can only hope that this new turn of events might somehow lead to your rescue.

----

As the foals eagerly wait by the pool, the mare overseeing the area finally gives them the go-ahead. “Alright, kids, have fun, but remember to be careful!”

The moment the words leave her mouth, a chorus of excited cheers erupts, and the foals rush towards the pool. Their attention quickly shifts to you, the brightly colored inflatable pony, standing by the water's edge.

“Let’s play with the pony!” one of the foals shouts, and in an instant, you’re surrounded by a swarm of little hooves and excited voices.

They push and pull you, their laughter ringing in your ears as they incorporate you into their games. Some climb on your back, pretending you’re a noble steed in a grand adventure, while others bounce off your sides, giggling at the squeaky sounds your plastic skin makes. You can feel every movement, every squeeze and tug, your rigid form bending slightly under their weight.

For a while, the poolside is filled with the happy chaos of foals playing. You’re bounced, rolled, and splashed as they enjoy their time in the water. Despite your predicament, there’s a small sense of relief in providing joy, even if unintentionally. The minutes blur together in a haze of activity, the sun high in the sky as the day progresses.

Eventually, the sounds of the festival begin to shift. The foals’ laughter gives way to the more organized buzz of adults preparing for the main event. You hear snippets of conversations about the upcoming Summer Sun Celebration, the excitement building as the time draws near.

“Alright, kids, it’s time to get ready for the celebration!” the mare calls out, clapping her hooves to get their attention.

Reluctantly, the foals start to leave the pool, dripping wet and chattering excitedly about the celebration. One by one, they head towards their parents, who are gathering near the stage area. You’re left alone by the pool, water dripping off your plastic form.

In the sudden quiet, you begin to tip over, unable to maintain your balance without the foals holding you up. You fall to the side, landing with a soft thud on the ground. Your vision shifts, and you find yourself facing the stage, one eye able to see around half of it.

From your new vantage point, you watch as the final preparations are made. Ponies are setting up decorations, adjusting microphones, and making sure everything is perfect for the big event. The anticipation is palpable, and you can feel the excitement in the air.

The stage is now the center of attention, ponies gathering around it, eagerly waiting for the celebration to begin. You lie there, half-forgotten by the pool, your single eye fixed on the stage, wondering what will happen next. The Summer Sun Celebration is about to start, and for now, you’re just an observer, unable to move or speak, hoping for a chance to be noticed.

----------
Chapter 5: Yearning Amidst Celebration
----------

As the crowd settles around the stage, the atmosphere is filled with a mix of anticipation and excitement. You lie on the ground, your single eye fixed on the stage, watching as a regal mare steps up to the podium. The murmurs of the crowd quiet down, all eyes focused on her.

“Welcome, everypony, to this year’s Summer Sun Celebration!” she begins, her voice carrying effortlessly over the assembled ponies. “Today, we come together to honor Princess Celestia and the unity she has brought to our land. For generations, the raising of the sun has symbolized not just the start of a new day, but the strength and harmony of Equestria.”

The crowd bursts into applause, ponies cheering and stomping their hooves in appreciation. The speaker pauses, allowing the enthusiasm to ebb before continuing.

“In these times, we are reminded of the importance of unity and friendship. As Princess Celestia raises the sun, let us remember that it is our bonds with each other that light the way, just as surely as her sun does. Together, we can overcome any challenge, and create a brighter, more harmonious future.”

The speech continues, touching on themes of community, hope, and the enduring spirit of Equestria. You can see the ponies around you nodding in agreement, their faces lit with pride and joy. The sense of togetherness is palpable, and despite your predicament, you can't help but feel a small connection to the warmth of their unity.

But as the speech goes on, you begin to feel a gnawing sense of boredom and distress. Lying there, unable to move, you're acutely aware of how the world is moving on without you. The longing to participate, to be a part of the celebration, is almost unbearable.

As the speech concludes, the crowd erupts into applause once more. Ponies cheer and hug, celebrating the words of encouragement and the symbolic significance of the event. The speaker steps down from the podium, and the focus shifts to the arrival of the food.

Tables laden with an array of delicious dishes are brought out, the enticing aromas filling the air. The sight of the food, so close and yet so unattainable, makes your heart ache. The delicious scents waft towards you, making your distress deepen. You spot freshly baked apple pies, their golden crusts glistening with sugar; bowls of crisp, colorful salads; steaming loaves of bread; and trays of sweets, from cupcakes piled high with frosting to delicate pastries filled with cream.

Your mouth would be watering if you were still able to eat. The memory of these tastes torments you—the sweetness of a perfectly baked pie, the crunch of a fresh salad, the warmth of a loaf of bread fresh out of the oven. You wish you could join the other ponies, filling your plate and enjoying the feast, but instead, you’re left with nothing but the longing.

Nearly half an hour passes, with everypony thoroughly engrossed in the festivities. The food is a hit, and the conversations flow freely, filled with laughter and the occasional song. The sense of community is strong, and for a while, the worries and troubles of the world seem far away.

Eventually, the foals start to drift away from the tables, their curiosity drawing them back towards the pool. The first foal to return is a little pegasus, her wings fluttering excitedly as she makes her way to the water’s edge. She glances around, spotting you almost immediately.

“Hey, look!” she calls out, pointing a hoof in your direction. “The inflatable pony is still here!”

A few other foals follow her gaze, their faces lighting up with excitement as they head over to join her. The chatter and giggles of the returning foals fill the air, and you find yourself the center of their attention once more.

The celebration continues, the sounds of joy and unity blending with the eager voices of the foals. As they gather around the pool, the next chapter of their playful adventures is about to begin, while you lie there, longing for the simple pleasures you may never experience again.

----------
Chapter 6: Twilight by the Pool
----------

The foals gather around the pool, their eyes sparkling with excitement as they spot the array of pool toys scattered around the water’s edge. While you, the brightly colored inflatable pony, catch their attention, the presence of other toys—beach balls, inflatable rings, and floaties—means you’re not the sole focus of their play.

“Can we play in the pool again?” one of the foals asks eagerly.

“Of course, just be careful!” the supervising mare replies, watching as they swarm towards the water.

The foals dive into the pool, their earlier energy slightly waned but still present. Some foals bounce a beach ball back and forth, while others lounge on inflatable rings, floating lazily on the water's surface. You’re occasionally nudged and pushed, drifting along the edge of the pool as the foals incorporate you into their games.

A couple of foals climb onto your back, pretending you’re a noble steed on a grand adventure, but their attention soon shifts to the other toys. You’re bumped and jostled, your plastic skin squeaking with each movement, but the play is less intense than before.

Despite your predicament, there’s a small sense of relief in being part of the background noise of their fun. The minutes pass by in a blur of activity, the foals' laughter and splashing water a comforting distraction from the longing for the food you can no longer taste or the simple freedom of movement you once had.

As the sun begins to set, casting a warm golden glow over the festival grounds, the energy of the foals starts to dwindle. One by one, they are called away by their parents, the sounds of the festival gradually shifting to the soft hum of families preparing to head home.

“Come on, dear, it’s time to go,” a mare calls to her foal, who reluctantly leaves the pool and trots over to join her.

“Just a few more minutes?” another foal pleads, but their parent shakes their head with a gentle smile.

Gradually, the pool area empties out, the remaining foals playing with you and the other toys less energetically, their earlier excitement giving way to tiredness. The supervising mare begins to tidy up the area, collecting stray toys and ensuring everything is in order.

Finally, the last few foals are called away, their tired smiles a testament to the fun they’ve had. You’re left floating in the pool, gently bumping against the edge as the water calms. The sounds of the festival fade into the distance as families make their way home.

The once bustling celebration grounds are now quiet, the joyful chatter replaced by the soft rustle of leaves in the evening breeze. You float there, half-deflated and forgotten once more, staring at the darkening sky. The day's events have left you exhausted in a way you never knew you could feel, a strange mix of relief and longing settling over you.

As night falls, the pool area is deserted, and you’re left alone with your thoughts, hoping that maybe tomorrow will bring some change or at least a moment of respite from this bizarre ordeal.

----------
Chapter 7
----------

A new day dawns over Ponyville, the first rays of sunlight casting a warm glow over the festival grounds. The once bustling celebration area is now eerily quiet, a stark contrast to the previous day’s lively festivities. You lie in the pool, forgotten among the other inflatable toys, as the clean-up crew begins their work.

Ponies start arriving, chatting and laughing as they survey the aftermath of the celebration. The sense of unity and camaraderie from the previous day lingers in the air, evident in the way they greet each other and share stories from the festival.

“Morning, everypony!” a mare calls out cheerfully as she trots over to join the cleanup. “Looks like we’ve got our work cut out for us.”

“Sure do,” a stallion replies, stretching his legs. “But it was worth it. The celebration was a huge success.”

“Did you hear about the fireworks mishap?” another mare chimes in, giggling. “Apparently, somepony set them off too early. Nearly gave the mayor a heart attack!”

Laughter erupts among the group as they begin to gather the decorations, carefully taking down banners and streamers. The sounds of their chatter fill the air, a comforting backdrop as the clean-up progresses.

A couple of ponies make their way to the pool area, their eyes scanning the various toys scattered around. One of them, a young stallion, spots you and the other inflatables floating aimlessly in the water.

“Alright, let’s start with these,” he says, gesturing to the pool toys. “We need to deflate them and pack them up for storage.”

With practiced efficiency, the ponies set to work, retrieving each inflatable from the pool. You’re lifted out of the water, droplets cascading off your plastic surface. The stallion gently presses on your valve, and the air inside you rushes out with a faint whooshing sound. The sensation of deflating is strangely familiar yet still unsettling, your body collapsing in on itself as the air escapes.

“You know, I heard Sweet Roll’s new bread recipe was a hit,” one of the mares says as she deflates a beach ball. “Everypony was raving about it.”

“I’m not surprised,” another mare replies, folding an inflatable ring with care. “Her bakery has really become the talk of the town. Did you get a chance to try any?”

“Unfortunately, no,” the first mare sighs. “By the time I got there, it was all gone.”

The conversation continues as they work, moving from topic to topic with ease. Gossip about the festival, plans for future events, and light-hearted banter fill the air, creating a sense of normalcy and community.

Once you’re fully deflated, the stallion carefully folds you up, pressing out the last remnants of air. He tucks you neatly into a storage box, alongside the other pool toys. The lid closes, and you’re enveloped in darkness once more, the muffled sounds of the cleanup crew still audible.

“There we go,” the stallion says, sealing the box. “All packed up and ready for next year.”

“Great job, everypony,” another voice calls out. “Let’s finish up and grab some breakfast. I’m starving!”

The ponies’ voices grow fainter as they move away from the pool area, their laughter and chatter fading into the distance. You lie there in the darkness, a mix of emotions swirling inside you. The sense of being forgotten is heavy, but there’s a sliver of hope that perhaps, one day, you’ll find a way back to your old self.

For now, you’re left to wait, surrounded by the echoes of a celebration that, despite everything, brought joy and unity to the ponies of Ponyville.
